You
mentioned that, say, a fish had a stripe on his arm
as a sort of mark of, you know, a white stripe is a
mark of identification. That's right. But that
was totally unnecessary. Did the upperclassmen
have marks of identity or stripes identifying
them as a particular? Of course, the sophomore had
corporal stripes if he was a, fed class if it was a
classified sophomore he got corporal stripes
which made quite an occasion when you got your
corporal stripes seemed like everybody on campus
tried to haze them it's also true when a sergeant
got his sergeant stripes and i never was around
when the seniors got their boots but
i'm sure that there was some kind of ceremony that
the rvs at the time i was there were
seemed to haze more than anyone else. It almost
discouraged you from wanting to be in an RV to see
the way they initiated their neophytes. A
sophomore's uniform was plain outside the
stripes. Freshman's uniform was plain, outside
the white fish stripe. The sophomores was outside
of the corporal stripes. And the juniors was more
or less the same thing. They usually had a little
bit better uniform, a little bit better, they had
bought some of their uniform. And of course the
seniors had their boots. And the seniors were
allowed to wear trousers.
We weren't, the freshmen wore leggings
and of course in his cavalry they wore uh uh former
leggings that weren't wrapped leggings we were
kind of envious of them for that fact they didn't
get up that early we thought we soon learned that we
could wrap them in about two or three minutes where
it used to take us 30 and 40 minutes when we first got
there well was that that was part of your
inspection though i suppose if you're like if your
patees weren't wrapped right well that's right
you get a ram for that that's right we sure did not
i've forgotten about the rams did they uh when you
were there did they still read the ram list in the at
supper yes sir And the freshman, I don't know what,
you picked up your, when he called attention, you
picked up your knife and you threw it forward and
pulled it back to you for inspection. If it had
butter on it, well, that's all the better. You can
throw the butter at the sophomore across the
table. Kind of give him an excuse to, of course,
he'd see you later about that. And every time he
would call a name, then you would repeat that
process. You'd throw your knife forward and bring
it back towards you in a kind of a salute.
It made, of all the 2,300, not that many freshmen. I
think there was, I can't even say, I'm going to say
this thousand freshman year I was there, but I do
not know. It was probably about that many if there
were 2,300. Anyway, when a thousand freshmen hit
the table with their knives and come up and saluted
with their, A forever name is called out in the mess
hall. A little noisy out there. It's a little
noisy. I believe that it was the noisiest place I
have ever been in my life was a mess hall the first
time until you get used to it. What did you do for
entertainment and recreation?
I know they occasionally had dances, but I don't
know whether the freshmen were allowed to go to
them. No, the freshmen weren't allowed to go, not
until the latter part of the year. I don't know.
You, a freshman, becomes pretty well acquainted
at the YMCA, at the Y. I spent a lot of time playing
dominoes over there, and it was swimming. I
believe the pool tables were always big. Probably
a freshman would have been very fortunate to have
gotten one. At the time, I wasn't much of a pool
shark.
It's my memory. Of course, the most present year of
my life was my freshman year at Texas A&M
University.
You had athletic events to go to. We had athletic
events. As I say, there was always something going
on on one side of the campus or another. Did you
individually participate in any of the
intramural athletics? I went out for freshman
basketball and freshman baseball. Now, this was
for the college team. That was for the college
team. I know I wasn't on any of the intramural. On
account of that, I wasn't on the intramural.
Intramurals are company. That's right. The
company knows, sir. I don't know any of that. You
didn't go into that. OK. Did the
men who were, and this is kind of a little bit
redundant, but I'll ask it anyway, the cadet
officers have any special privileges? That would
be mostly, I take it, seniors and juniors. I mean,
say, did a senior who was a major have privileges
that a senior private didn't have? I'm sure they
did, but I didn't know of it. We often said that the
junior, you'd rather be a junior at Texas A&M
University than any other class because they seem
to not have too many duties. And they were a little
bit above all the childish stuff of a freshman and a
sophomore. And they almost came and went as they
wanted to. And outside of the first sergeant, I
don't remember, and the sergeants on the staff, of
course the senior officers came and went as they
desired. Did you have any favorite instructors
while you were there? Yes, my favorite instructor
was D.B. Cofer in English, and of course we called
him Dusty, not to his face, and he and I had the
privilege of years later, when my son was at Texas
A&M, meeting Dusty and getting to reminisce quite
a bit. One of the disappointments of my life, about
15 years after I was out of college, I was I met D.B.
Cofer on the campus there, and he didn't even
remember me, and I was pretty well disappointed in
that. Of course, he'd probably seen 15,000 or
20,000 boys since then. But I even think he had some
influence on my life. Okay. What did the students
as a whole... Oh, I must tell you about Tom
Harrington. Tom Harrington was my fish chemistry
teacher. The third day I came to... class in fish
chemistry. I had made a B under Pop Koenig, a
beloved chemistry teacher, but I'm sure he wasn't
the hardest man that ever taught fish chemistry.
The third day I was in fish chemistry class in my
second semester was under Tom Harrington. Tom
Harrington said, Fish Ansley? Only he said, Mr.
Ansley. This class doesn't seem to be doing you any
good, and you don't seem to be doing any good. I
believe if I were you, I'd drop it. So I dropped it.
And Tom Harrington was right, of course. I never
dreamed that he'd be someday, he'd be the
chancellor of the college, the president of the
college, and we got to be great friends in later
life. Tom's still alive. Yeah, he's still alive.
And he got to know my boy and one of the thrills of my
life is... As a matter of fact, they just dedicated
the Harrington Education Center this last
spring. That's right. I opened the elevator once
at the Hilton in Dallas and there was a man and...
started off the elevator and said, I know you.
You're Charles Ansley's daddy, which that Tom
Harrington would know my son who was with Texas
A&M. I appreciated that from Tom for coming to
town. He'd know who I was in that way. What was the
attitude of the students to the administration?
And I guess probably you had a dual
administration, didn't you? You had a president
in charge of the education and the commandant in
charge of the discipline, so to speak. Well, of
course, Dr. Brazell was the president, and I got to
know him. We got in a little scrape over thinking
the yell leader was drunk, and Dr. Brazell wanted
us to explain that, and he was just that old side,
which was just acting crazy. But anyway, by casual
remark, it got back to Dr. Brazell. I got to know Dr.
Brazell real well, and I even knew him in later life
at Oklahoma University and Colorado University.
And his front door was always open to everybody.
And one of the things that he told, he's walking
down, he told this in Sunday morning, not mass what
do we bible class no he taught a bible class yes i
know but this we went to we were marched to church
what did uh mass no what is it called devotion no not
devotion probably well we marched to church every
sunday and one morning he told about he had learned
something since he'd been texting him he said he's
walking down military walk the other night or the
night before And he got too close to one of those
buildings, and he got a GI can full of water. And he
said he'd learned not to walk too close to
buildings. And he was a lovable character and a
great man. So you marched to church. Was that in
what, Guyon Hall? Guyon Hall, in Guyon Hall. I
don't know. And we sat in our companies. And it was
hot. This was before the day of air conditioning,
and it was crowded. Probably the day before. But we
had lots of
real speakers, people of note. I can't tell you one
right now, but at the time there wasn't any
small-time people that we had to speak to us.
Chapel, it's called Chapel. They went up to
Chapel. I couldn't. The military was known as
Colonel Todd. Colonel C.C. Todd, I believe was his
name, was a commandant at Texas A&M when I was
there. As a matter of fact, in my annual, I noticed
kind of a takeoff on it. It's called College
Station Toddville, Texas. And in a lot of ways, he
did kind of run the whole campus, or we thought he
did. I don't know that I ever had any brushes with
Colonel Todd. Do
you remember whether there were any girls in any of
the classes when you were there? Yes, we had.
I'm thinking there were 17 girls. Or 34 girls. I
can't remember which at Texas A&M when I was there.
Maybe it's one girl for every 34 cadets or
something of that nature. I couldn't... What were
these? Primarily faculty, children, and other
relatives? That's right. Faculty, children, and
other relatives. And I married into a family that
were Dad Short's family. And Dad Short had two
girls who went to Texas A&M in the early 20s. Dad
Short is a former head of the Extension Department
at Texas A&M University. He's a former president
of the Ex-Students Association. And I married a
sister of a Texas A&M graduate, two Texas A&M
graduates. So I took her away from another Texas
A&M graduate. It's been my life. Were there any
girls in any of the classes you were in? I can't
remember. It seemed to me as if there was one in
mechanical drawing. Did the people who
participated in what's now referred to as
intercollegiate athletics, as opposed to, say,
intramural, did they have any particular
privileges? Oh, yes, definitely. The athletes
were Even as a freshman athlete, we got to go to the
training table, which was quite
an honor and better food than an ordinary cadet
got. And we could eat there at a little bit
different hours, too. We didn't have quite the
stringent hours that the cadets had.
The incident was Mule Wilson, Fay Mule Wilson, one
of the great
football players at Texas A&M University was in
our company. And one day he put on a uniform. Now
this was when he was a junior. And he put on a
uniform. It was the only time I ever saw him in a
uniform. So they went all upper class and took him
around and introduced him to the freshmen. Said,
this is Fay Wilson. Said, he's been a member of this
military company ever since you've been here. And
I'm sure he went what we call the non-rag most of the
time. Well, I know he did. That's the only time I
ever saw him with a uniform on. And the other boys,
some athletes, though, were of a military nature.
Mm-hmm. But they had certain privileges. They had
certain privileges. I'm going to say at Texas A&M
University, the athletes are put on a pedestal.
I'm talking about all the athletes.
The other one is the military. At that time, I was
much enamored of the military life. We sure looked
up to our senior officers and company commanders.
Did you participate in the Second World War after
you... No, after the Second World War, we had a
Sergeant B.B. Daniels, of which I'm sure someone
has mentioned, and he's going around. We were out
on maneuvers one day, and We'd sit down to rest, and
we were out there in the cow pasture, and of course,
when he'd holler, we'd throw ourselves down in the
cow pasture. And it was getting a little bit rough,
and he told us boys, he says, you think this is
rough? He says, you ought to be in the war. And he
said, you see that cigarette over there? And he had
a cigarette or a snipe over there about an inch
long. He says, I've seen the time when I've been
given $25 for it. And he had told us how much hell war
really was. So when the Second World War come
along, I remembered that. And I never did, I didn't
go volunteer to win it. So I've never. And they
didn't call you to serve? No, they didn't call me.
And I was at that awkward age. I was a little too old.
For the draft. Yeah, and almost too smart to run and
jump in. I don't mean that I was a draft dodger. I did
dodge the draft, but what I'm trying to say is it
taught me that When you finished your first year,
one year at A&M, then what did you do after that? I
went to Clarendon College. I came home and worked a
while, and then I went to Clarendon College.
That's in Clarendon, Texas? Yeah, in Clarendon,
Texas. And after that, I went to, I came home,
worked some more, and I went to school in
Washington, D.C. And I learned a bit about the dry
cleaning business, and I've been in it ever since.
You say you came home and worked a while. Did you
work for your father, or did you have some other
type of employment? No, I've never worked for my
father. That's one of the fallacies of my life. I
should have, but I didn't have it. How long did he
continue to run the Anzalee Land and Cattle
Company?
He ran it until he was about 80 years old, until
about 1950. Mm-hmm. And then did somebody else in
the family take it over? No, that's one of the
fallacies of our family. None of us ever had enough
sense to take it up where he left off. Nobody knew
the business at that point. Well, no, we didn't
have enough sense to, I guess.
I think that most children don't like to follow
their father's footsteps. There's something bad
about it, which is untrue, but When did you first
get into the cleaning business? Labor Day, 1926,
and I had an older brother. This was in the oil boom
in Amarillo, Texas. He was a routman, and they were
making fabulous money at that time, and I wanted
some of that easy money. That's picking up laundry
to bring in to be cleaned and then delivered again.
That's right, and that's how I got into it. Went to
school and learned the business, and that's, I've
stayed in it since then. I'm now in politics. I
don't know whether you want that on there or not.
Oh, certainly. About five or six years ago, I ran
for county commissioner, and this place, the man
had been in office 35 years, and I've been in it ever
since. What is your function then as a county
commissioner? I don't, we're no different, I'm no
different than any other of the 254 county
commission, counties in Texas. We are a county
commission, is one of the business managers of the
county. I don't know. Okay, so as a commissioner,
you meet what, once a week, once a month? Once a week
or in our hours, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. We
used to think county commissioners had to do with
the roads. They still have to do with the roads, but
of course that's a very minor thing. My only
previous connection with county commissioners
was in my home, Lee County, and the county
commissioner is the chief of the road gang. Well,
and he used to be the man that could run the road
greater than the best was a good county
commissioner. But now with all the roads being, or
most all of them being paved, I guess the highway
department takes care of them. Well, no, we have.
You have a few that aren't. We have a lot, and some
counties have more, and it's different, but it's
really and truly a county commissioner that is, as
I say, would almost be a, have the same functions as
the director of a bank. So you meet and approve
expenditures for the county and direct the
policies of the county and so forth and so on. And I
gather with, is this Amarillo County or? It's
Potter County. Potter County. And with a city the
size of Amarillo in it, why, you have a lot of
financial obligations to take care of. My
particular precinct does not have a county road in
it, which is unique in itself. I doubt there's many
others. How many commissioners are in Potter
County? There's four. Every county in Texas has
four commissioners. Is that, what, a four-year
term now? Yeah, it's a four-year term now. And I
have two more years after this one, and I would like
to run until they run me out. Well, do you have any
ambitions of going up above the level? No, I like
this. I'm sorry that I didn't get into politics 25
or 30 years ago, but this is fine. I like it, and I
enjoy it, and I've enjoyed a little success, and
I'm now president of the West Texas County Judge
and Commissioner Association. I have been
president of the Panhandle County Judge and
Commissioner Association, which is probably a
name only outside the fact that this is the year
that we're trying to change the Constitution. We
have been very active in Austin this year. That is
at the County Judges and Commissioners. That's
right. Organization. What
What sort of relationship is there, and I don't
mean by this is there fighting or what, but say
between the city council of Amarillo and the
county commissioners, do you work together on
various and sundry things? We try to work together
on many different projects. Outside of
personalities, we work together real well. It's
almost like apples and oranges in lots of ways.
What I mean is The city handles only misdemeanors.
We handle only felons for our jail. So when you talk
about a city county jail,
we're talking about felons and they're talking
about misdemeanors. It's different.
We have something to do with the schools and the
county schools because the county school
superintendent is a part of our duties. I don't
mean he's under our jurisdiction exactly, but he
is. So you still have a county superintendent
school?
It's a very interesting word. I think in a number of
counties they discontinued that office of county
superintendent. That's right. In fact, in my home
county, Lee County, they discontinued it, I
think, partially at the insistence of the
incumbent. Well, that could be true, and I can see
why. But Potter County is fortunate in that we have
good schools, good county school. Amarillo is the
only city in this county. There's no other
incorporated town or anything. This is the only
city in this town. That makes it sort of different
from almost anything else, too. It's a different
county. I think probably even Harris County has
more than one city in it. Yes, it does. I think
Houston has more than one city in all of them. I have
got to know There's a lot of Aggies in politics. I
have found that to be true. Yeah, I think so. We
have, I know, a number in the legislature. Yes, and
we have a lot of them in county government. And I've
got to know some of those in the legislature. Judge
Holbrook in Galveston is one I can call the name
right now. Well, I know, I think... I don't know how
much this relates, but I know the Aggies have just
formed a bar association, I believe, of former
students. I wouldn't doubt that. I wouldn't doubt
that. I'm glad. I'm glad. I'm definitely glad.
Some kind of a legal association. Of course, we're
having a little bit. We had a little bit in the new
constitution that all county judges should be
lawyers. And, of course, I was very much involved
in that discussion.
Did you participate in the hearings before the
committee that drafted the Constitution? Oh,
yes. That's right. That's right. But that's a
minor part. I mean, thousands of other people did
the same thing. Okay. Let's see.